In the last lecture we were able to display who outlawed our specific blog post and we talk that when
I am authenticated as a different user.
In this example I am John Doe.
I shouldn't be able to edit or delete others blog posts.
So let's go to the Visual Studio code and see how can we achieve that.
So you need to find a provider's folder and then open the service provider.
So as I've mentioned a couple of times previously the provider classes are the places where you set
up some specific logic that is about some part of your application.
And this one that our service provider is about authentication and authorization setup.
So what we will gonna do is will define a gate.
So what is a gate gate is basically simple closure that has a name.
So there is a name of the gate.
And then there is a closure that will get called to verify if certain user is able to perform a specific
action.
So you should have this gate for sale imported already in your of service provider.
But if you don't make sure you have added this specific use statement at the top of your hour service
provider of course you can also find this code inside GitHub the link is included.
Now let's see how we can define a simple gate.
So this gate for sale provides us a static method called define.
And as you can see on the parameter hint The first is called ability.
So this would be a global ability we define something that can be done and let's call it update post.
So we define an ability that someone can update a blog post and the second parameter to gate define
is the callback.
It's the closure that will be called to verify if specific user can actually perform certain action.
So those closures will always receive a user instance as a first argument.
So you do not really have to worry about that Lavell will pass the currently authenticated user instance
as the first parameter and then it will pass a second parameter or more parameters and in this case
we will want to pass our particular blog post.
So let's create a second parameter called Post.
So this is how Gates definition looks like and what we should do inside this gate is we should somehow
verify if this user is able to edit this blog post.
So currently the simplest way we can do that or the simplest rule we can invent because of course you
can come up with any possible rules even very complicated ones.
But let's keep it simple for now.
So we should return true whether when the particular user is able to perform this action or false when
he shouldn't perform this action he shouldn't be able to perform this action.
So we will verify if the user I.D. is equal to the post user I.D. column.
So now we have this gate defined but it's not used anywhere out domestically.
So we have to now verify and we have to do that explicitly whether a particular user can perform a particular
action.
So let's copy this gate for state import and go to the post controller because this is where we'll perform
this check and let's paste it to our post controller.
Now let's scroll to the update action and now we have a couple of ways to verify whether a particular
user should perform specific action.
So the first way is to use the gate for sale.
So we have defined one gate the update post but now we have a couple of we have actually two methods
and the first one would be denies.
So what it accepts is you can check whether specific ability like update posts can be performed by specific
users.
So we do not really have to pass the user instance.
As I've said before it will be passed ultimately by Lavell.
Now this will return whether specific user can do something or actually in this case denies will return
whether he can't do something.
So we should surrounded with an if statement and now when user cannot update a blog post we can simply
call a board function.
So a board function will just redirect to our specific page with our specific message and this will
redirect to an error page and in each CTP protocol when someone is not allowed to perform specific action
you should return 400 free code.
You can additionally of course specify a message but if you want then the default message will be provided
by Lavell.
So let's test that.
So now we are checking if the user which will be passed by Lavell can update a specific post minded
that we do not have to worry about users that are not authenticated because they won't be able to even
go to the forum in the first place because this is actually being protected using the alpha middleware.
So no one will be ever able to get to the edit or update update pages if they are not authenticated
at all.
Okay enough talking now let's go back to our page let's refresh.
And now we are out indicated as John Doe and let's try to edit this blog post so you can see that you
are still able to go to the forum.
But if you will press update you are being redirected to the 400 free page.
Now let's see if we can customize the message like you.
Or maybe let's use double quotes.
You can't edit this blog post and save the changes.
Now if you will refresh you can see that you see this message and there is 400 free code.
So obviously you will be able to customize how those error pages looked like.
Those are the defaults provided by Lavell.
Let's not worry about it right now we'll get to that later.
But this is how you can protect resources.
So since we are still able to see the form and probably we shouldn't because we won't be able to change
this blog post anyway we can copy this to the edit action itself which displays the forum.
So here we are where we are fetching that blog post and we'll be also using our board to display this
page in the first place.
So let's go back to the blog post at least and now when you try to edit you immediately are being redirected
to the error page with the specific message that you cannot edit this blog post.